INTRODUCTION ¹ -, LI

, Between Cicero and Sicco it, is harder to choese. ln lavor ol the
former is the lact that in this period it was a commen practice to
3* give imaginary pertraits ol ancient authors in modern garb at the
beginning ol their books, On the other hand the lact thatthe
; pertrait was put in later, at the same timeas Sicco's coat ol arms,
' creates a strong presumption in laver ol taking the pertrait as Sicce's. ’
That the pertrait was net placed at the very beginning, in the initial
letter ol the argumentum, but was inserted near the end ol the page
in the initial letter el Cicero's oration is no prool that the picture
represents Cicero. For the original copyist, as previously stated,
regularly lelt a smaller space lor the initial el the argumentum than ,
lor that el the oration, and the lermer was teo small lor a pertrait.
The miniaturist was thus forced to use the larger space lor the
pertrait.

Why did the miniaturist net malrethe ceat ol arms and the
pertrait when he ornamented the rest ol the page? As lar as the
formeris concerned at least, the reason did not lie in laclr ol artistic
ability, lor the tasl( demanded less ability than the rest el the illu-
mination. Clearly then the reason was that special directions had to
be given lor making the ceat el arrns. Much the same reason must
have been operative in the case el the pertrait. ll this were rnerely
an imaginary Cicero, the illuminator could simply have been told
to ge ahead and draw en his imagination. Since, on the etherhand,
the illuminator was told to leave the space bare, it seems a little
mere likely that this was dene because the pertrait had te he made
from life or copied lrom another pertrait. We cannot, however,
attain to certainty, and so can only suggest the plausibility ol the
identificatien ol this pertrait as Sicco.

XV. Tin: Cnrrrcu herroneus

ln a lew cases the text ol this edition deviates irem the reading .
ol Ο where it was lelt that O’s reading is due te a purely mechanical
error in copying, which Sicco would have corrected il he had noticed
it. In such cases the apparatus reports the reading el O. Otherwise
the chiel purpose ol the apparatus is te note those corrections in

 

