XXXIV INTRODUCTION

these were made. Let us consider the added passages in some dess
tail (1). Among these are several dealing with Martial. The lile
ol Martial (71 17) rs entirely rn erasure Most ot the other manu
scripts, including H, have the text as originally written; MPW have
the text as correct ted inO. Similarly all the manuscripts except (Μ)

PW omit additions to the lives ot Seneca (1174) and ol Livy
(l7532) based on information gainedl rom Martial (2). The

changes due to the reading ol Martial must therefore have been made
alter the copying ol H or its original, il H is not a direct copy ol Ο. So
too in the case ο1 an addition from Augustine's Soliloqur'es (45622).

This raises the question whether H is a direct copy ol O or not,
The readings previously quoted show that its text was talren lrorn
Ο belore V's text was (more ol O's corrections are in Vthan in H).
But we have seen that V was probably written in l437, while H is
dated 1438. Therelore it seems that H is not a direct copy ol O
but a copy ol a copy made in 1437 (3).

Two passages added in Ο (76.12ς 15819) are lound in all
the manuscripts except Α. They were therefore added inOsomewhat
earlier than the preceding. Two others found in all the manuscripts

(250.29; 46222) must be still earlier.

VIII. Sicco's Souacas tivo His Usa or Tuam

'ln his introduction Polenton states that his object is to tell the·
truth as he finds it, and he challenges anyone to prove that he.
deliberately invented his statements. One must not, however, take
his challenge too literally. Whilehe quotes his authorities gen*

(1) Το do this lor the 'entire text would necessitate complete colla-
tion ol several ο1 the manuscripts, especially H, hut this is scarcely worth
while. The facts about the added passages are given above. Α small
number ol readings from H which are ol interest in this connection are
quoted in the critical apparatus. Α

(2) l laclr inlormation about M at these two points but consider it
reasonably sale to assume that it agrees with PW.

(3) 11 Ἠ is a direct copy ot O then V must have been written in 1438
(or later), and the date ot the letter to the Rishop of F eltre would almost

 

