Χ turuouucrrou ¹

termining the date when Sicco became chancellor. As a matter ol
lact, it is clear that he was not yet chancellor in l4l3. ln that
year he finished the Argumenta,- a work giving outlines ol several
01 Cicero's orations, in continuation ola similar worlc by Antonio
Loschi. lt has not been observed'that a copy 01 this worlcin
the Vatican (1) was made lor Sicco himself and, in lact, was
partly written by him. On the first page it contains his coat 01
arms, a winged arrow pointing up. This was the emblem 01 the
Ricci family to which h'e belonged, used also by his brother
Francesco (2). ’ ’ ’ ’ ’

To the lelt ol the arrow is the letter X, to the right, l, standing·
lor Xicho‚ or Xico‚·the older spelling ol the name (3). On the same
page there is an illuminated initial containing a hooded figure
holding a book, which is perhaps that 01 our author (see p. xlix). La<
ter in the hook (l. l6l) we find, in the handwriting 01 Sicco: chho
Polentorri scriba parares hoc opus scribi fecit padue anno l4l3 od usum
eius et posterorum. Later Sicco himsell changed the first words to·
Sicco polentonas saravus, etc.. leaving a blank space where the word

μ--ψ-ῌᾲ...

(l) Pal. lat. 1478. The outlines are much· brieter in this manuscript
than in the other manuscripts. *The same is true 01 Loschi's outlines,
also given in this manuscript. Furthermore the text 01 the orations
themselves is given, which is not true ol the other manuscripts 01 the
Argumenta. ln other words, the manuscript is primarily one containing
Cicero's Oratione. ¹

(2) 10 0 manuscript 01 Sicco's lile 01 St. Anthony copied in 1464
by Francesco (Venice, Marc. lat. 01. IX, l82). Ahedgehog is added to
each side 01 the arrow. Segarizzi (p. lxviii), overloolcing the stemma and
the letters FR (Francesco), wrongly castsdoubt on the plain statement
· that Francesco copied the manuscript. He is led to do so by the many
errors it contains. The Polenton lamily continued to use the red arrow;
01. Gio. Battista Frizier‚ Origine della Nobilissima et Antica Citra di Padoo,
et Cittadinr' Suor' (unpublished manuscript 01 the seventeenth century
in Padus, Bibl. Civ. B. P. 1232), 1399. ¹Here a woll is shown 00 each
side 01 the arrow. ·

(3) This is a reminiscence 01 Sicco's notarial seal (“ tabellione ’'),a
monogram 01 XlCO (see the lacsimile in Segarizzi, opposite p.==xrr1v)‚

which be continued to ‘use even alter he adopted the spelling Sicco.

 

