lnruouucrion xxxvii

This custom ol introducing phraseology lrom the works which
he is discussing, and especially lrorn the first lew lines ol these works
leads to an interesting conclusion. ln writing about Cicero he
says that the death ol Tullia led Cicero to write on the subject ol
consolation (458.7);

«Tum quidem, ut doloris magnitudinem medicina aliqua mitiga-
ret, librum edidit unum, qui de Consolatione inscriptus est. >t

This work is lost, hut a treatise on the subject going under Cic-
ero's name is extant. The date ol this lorgery has been set all the
way lrom antiquity to the sixteenth century. Now Sicco seems to
have had this treatise in mind. Its opening words, are:

«Quamquam recentibus morbis medicinam adhibere vetant
’ sapientesm opem ad leniendum et mitigandum dolorem petere coacti

sumus.» Α
The similarity ol these words to Sicco's is striking enough, in
view ol Sicco's method ol citation as we have set it lorth above, to
justily the assertion that he had access to the pseudo-Ciceronian
treatise and that he considered it genuine (l). Therelore it not ⁴
only was not written in the sixteenth century but probably not lat-
er than the Middle ngas. The name ol the eminent scholar who
- was charged with forging it, Carlo Sigonio, is thus cleared. May he
have the satislaction ol knowing it! ¹
, The number ol works known to Sicco is astonishingly larga
he> knew most ol the works known to us, although ol course it is
not necessary to suppose that he read them all or even had direct
access to them. Among the notable exceptions are Lucretius (Ζ),
Petronius, Valerius Flaccus, Frontinus' De Aquis. Ol Plautus he
apparently knew only eight plays, He does not mention the Silvae
oi Statius, though he knew Silius Italicus, found by Poggio at the
same time. He speaks ol prose letters ol Statius (l2l .23); the most

(l) While the idea expressed in Sicco and the iorgery is common
enough in the Tantas, and medicine is often used in a figurative sense ’
in that work, the phrase dolorem mitigare is used only in Fla. ll. 95. lt
would be strange il both Sicco and the author ol the lorged Consolatio
conflated the Tusculons and the De Finibus in the same way.

(2) He knew ol Lucretius through Jerome but had not seen his book.

 

