xxx mnronucnou ’

one ol their own number, which was a copy ol O.v Those outside
oi this iamily were also copied from Ο, directly or indirectly, at
various times. The first to be copied was the original ol Α, as Α
is the only manuscript which has ihc first version ol l58.l9. Other
readings malie clear that Α is not a direct copy buta copy oi a
corrected copy oi O. The next in order ol copying was H (or its
original) and the original ol VCDRSTU, then MPQ and the original
oi W. P certainly was not copied until alter Sicco’s death (ci the¹
example &17 above); MQW may not have been copied until
then. ¹ ³
¹ The determination oi the exact relation existing between the
members oi the rather large group oi manuscripts that belong
together (VCDRSTU) cannot be certain without a more thorough
examination ol the manuscripts. The evidence at hand iavors the
selection oi V as the common ancestor oi the rest.v lt is certain
that it is the parent oi Vat. lat. 8533, as shown above. lt is the
ancestor oi R but not the immediate parent, as shown by the con-
dition ol the gatherings in R, mentioned above, by the addition
oi edidit at the very end oi R, and by various emendations in R,
suchas constitutos ior constitutis (33729), in which latter wrong
'readingV agrees with Ο. R is also clearly the ancestor oi U, as shown
by the lact that the latter contains marginal matter written in red
inl< by the iirst hand which in V was written by one or probably
two later hands partly in red, partly in blacl( inlr. This matter
is not lound in other· manuscripts and ¹apparently originated with
one ol the readers oi V. The correct reading ignominiose in l58.2
as against ignominose oi OV must be an emendation introduced
into· the immediate parent ol U. lt may be thought that D does
not belong to this group because in several ol the passages quoted
it has correct readings differing lrom OV, but these are simple cor·
rections obviously introduced into its much emended parent. The
wrong spelling summit in 504.16, agreeing with ΟΑ against V, is
not significant, as one cannot argue irom agreement in spelling in
humanistic manuscripts. D itseli cannot be the parent oi any ex-
isting manuscript, as it has numerous omissione, ior some oi which
space was leit, which do not occur in any other manuscript. Dis
apparently related to C more closely than to any other manuscript

 

