L rutnouuc‘rlou

oration. These were later filled in by a miniaturist. For the
first oration he made the initial ol the outline and the border lor
the initial Q ol the oration, leaving tha large oval inside blank.
,He likewise made a border lor the page and between the columns,
but lelt a large space, approximately square, vacant at the bottom
in the middle. These two spaces were filled in at a later-time,
perhaps by another miniaturist. The prool lies in the lact that the
pigments are different lrom those used intherestoltheornamentation.
,The blue especially'is rougher‚ more challey (or sandy) than the
smooth blue ol the restll). As a result its surlace has worn off
more. There is less difference in the greens, though here too the
green ol the added parts is rougher and has less yellow in it. Still
less difference can be seen in the lavender pink tints, though that
ol the added portions has a bit more brown in it.

The added part at the bottom ol the page consiste ol Sicco’s
coat ol arms, as described above (p. x); the initial includes a
pertrait ol a jurist in fifteenth century garb, wearing a rich garment
ol lavender and green, with a collar ol ermine. ln his leit hand he
holds a book, to which he points with his right hand (see Frontispiece).

Whom does the portrait represent? Only three alternatives
suggest themselves: Loschi, Cicero, Sicco. The first may be sum·
marily dismissed: Loschi's outlines‚ as we have seen, were cavallerly η
treated by Sicco, and in lact condensed and rearranged so that their
authorship is scarcely recognizable. At some points Sicco made
additions ol his own in his own hand. Only on a llyleal is there a
recognition ol Loschi in the heading ol the table ol contents written
in Sicco's own hand:
=· «Orationes Tullii in hoc volumine colligate sunt cum argumentis
suis, quorum partem, videlicet Xl, lecit Antonius Luscus Vincentinus
orator egregius, reliquam, videlicet XII, lacere ausus est Sicco
Polentonus (2). r

ll Sicco had wished to honor Loschi with a pertrait, he would
first ol all have given his predecessor's argumenta in complete lorm.

(l) On all these points l have the support ol Mgr. E. Carusi ol the
Vatican library‚ Professor C. Ε Μοῑεγ, and Professor Myrtilla Avery
(2) See also above, p xi

 

