xtl rumouuc'rtou

aaron or cram (ι), soon arser (a. ras) sicco was a sa.

tise, De ratione studendi, now lost. He followed this about 1419

with a comedy, Catiaiu, famous as being one ol the earliest Latin ‚³
comedies ol the Renaissauce. ¹

’ 111. Tua Liras on Fawous Lxrrn Auruoas

Even while writing his other books Sicco was collecting material
lor his magnum opus, which he called Scriptorum Illustrr‘um Latinae
'Linguae Libri. Afirsr edition ol this, less complete than the final·
torm, exists in a single manuscript in the Riccardiana library ol
Florence. Sicco worked on this edition until about l426. Sega-
’ rizzi assumes that he then abandoned it suddenly and began all
over again on the second edition. Another explanation seems
more plausible. The Riccardiana manuscript ,was not written by
Sicco himself, as is clear from the handwriting, and has no addi·¹
tions or corrections in his hand. It seems likely that the copy was
made lor some friend ol Sicco's before the book was completed ’ ,
and ready lor publication. Sicco then kept on adding and correct·
ing until the book took on its linal lornr. Ι

The so-called second edition was the work ol 25 years, as Sicco
tells us in a letter written in l437‚ and required much hard work and
perspiration. The suggestion lor writing such a book carne lrom
Petrarch and Jerome. ln 2l6.l2 he lists his predecessore the names
are taken lronr Jerorne's prelace to his Dc Viris I llnstribrrs, with the
exception ol Pomponius Rufus, Petunti, Gennadius, and Isidorus (2) ·
The last two are mentioned tor their biographies ol Christian writers,
along with Jerorne, whose work they continued. The name Porn-
ponius Rufus Sicco found in Valerius Maximus, IV. 4 praef. He
owes little, however, to any oi these predecessore except the mere
suggestion. For example, he owes practically nothing to Petrarch's

De Viris illustribus. On the other hand he did make some use ol

(l) Sicco lollowed Barzizza in calling Seneca tragicus the son ol Sene-
ca moralis (Novati, Epistolarao di Coluccr'o Saturast, 1, p. 154, n. 2).

(2) The inclusion ot Cicero's name is due to the following sentence in
Jerome: Cicero... r'n Bruto oratorum linguae Latinae texens caralogrnn.

 

