Vll} INTRODUCTlON ⁸

The man who perhaps more than any other continued the worlr :J
ol Petrarch and Boccaccio in the lourteenth century was Coluccio
Salutati ol Florence. His successore and disciples made Florence ’ζ

,, the center ol humanism in the fifteenth century under the splendid l*

Α ’ *patronarge ol the Medici. lt will bea long time belore the world ³
„ „ produces the like ol Florence ol the quattrocento. ‘

But the humanistic revival was by no means conhned to Flor·
enee. Most ol the sities ol northern ltaly in particular became
eenters lor the propagation ol the new culture. Among these Padua
took an honored place. Petrarch spent the last years ol his lile in
and near Padua. The historiari Livy was proudly remembered as
a son ol padua, and his name served to awalcen its citizens to the
- glories ol ancient times. lt is with one ol Padua's most important
humanists that this book is concerned.

ΙΙ. Sicco Poreurou

Sicco Polenton was born in l375-l376‚ as established by Sega-
rizzi in the admirable introduction to his edition ol Sicco's play,
the Catinia (1), The place ol his birth uas probably Borgo Valsuu
gana (2), though he speaks ot himself as being lronr Levico (near
Trent), which was the home ol the Ricci family, to which he be-
longed. He was the youngest ol nineteen children by his lather's first
wile. As a small child he was brought to Padua, the ancestral horne

ol the family. ln this city he remained all his lile and with it he

(l) Α.· Segarizzi, Lo Curiata, le Orozionr' e le Epistola dr' Sicco Patara,
Bergamo, 1899, The reader is referred to this work and its supplemento

(l90l), both ol which are unfortunately out ol print, lor further details ’

and bibliography. An addition to the bibliography is given by Segarizzi
in “ Α. Baratella e i suoi corrispondenti '¹ (Pubblicozioni della R. deputo-
zr'one veneto-tridentino dr' storia partia), 1916. One insignificant item to
be added to this list is a pamphlet by V. d'hgosrino, De vita antiq. poca
torum Lat. in Xr'conr's Polentonr' libro, Tutin, 1926.

(Ζ) G. Suster‚ Arri dalla occad. scientifico veneto-irentinour‘striana

ι (classe δῖοι-Μ.) Ill-IV (l906·l907)‚ 81 n. Suster also males the pro·

bable suggestion that Sicco's father was commender of the guard at
Borgo and named his son alter his ernployer‚ Siccone?² di Telvana.

 

