⁸ rumonucriow = xix

ecalbook XVll) in the Vatican (Pal. lat 888 which l shall
call F) (1). That this volume belonged to Sicco 1s clear from the
followinghcts: s

1, ΟηΙ. Bv 1t had the following hnes in Siccoshandlater incom .
pletely erased: ’

a Tu, o qui me legis, siste parum, ausculta, audi; paucis expediam.
ld velim nec aliud· 'ni quod legens ita* legas ut rem non scriptorem
attendas Nam te nosce minui presentia lamam. hbemt tu vero
s lege memor.»

Ζ lt contains a portion ol one ol Sicco's letters (Νο XVI, Sega-
nezi), written in lormal Gothic, not autograph as a flylesl (Ι. 50) 1
. 3. In the lile ol Seneca there are a number ol additions and cor
sections in Sicco's hand (Plate Ill, margim lor a discussion olhis
handwriting see below).

4 Some ol the corrections end also etheis not made by Sicco
f himself are ol such a nature thet only the author could have been
responsible lor them. The following examples will make this clear.
ln the opening words ol book XVll (4632) the manuscript orig·
inally had (as do Ο and the other manuscripts ol the complete work)
fili mi suavissime Polydoro. This was then changed to presul reue-
rendissime. We know from Sicco’s letter XX, dated October 6,l437,
that he had at last finished the complete text ol his big· work alter
25 years ol labor and had recently published separately the lite ol
Seneca as a sample: Α
Ι «Ciceronem... sequitur librorum ex ordine quem vidisti, Seneca

(1) Fl. ¹ t÷49v contain Sallust (s. l2·l3)‚ ll. 51-85ν the tite ol Seneca.
Then comes another Sallust (11. 88140), which was bound with the rest

v since coming to the Vaticen and has nothing to do with Sicco. See

Plate 111.

(2) The passage ,begins with liquefactus (p 113 seg.) end ends with' ’ ¹

deilp. 114). Variants are vectigale lor uectigal, aeque lor atque (bis), α
eapite for e cupite, the inclusion ot the words ferramenta multe adest pretor
Marcus Dandulus alter lesi. These last words ‘furnish a splendid tribute
to Segarizzi’s remarkable acuteness as' a textual critic. for he actually
restored the last four words. The context calls lor another neme, and'
Segerizzi found it in a parallel passage ol the Scriptorum Illustrr'rr'm Libri, ·

 

