XIV INTRODUCTION

books XXVI are devoted to Cicero- seven books, lor, as Sicco

s'ays magno res est Cicera book XVII takes up Seneca3 book XVIII ,

includes a number ol' minor writers on diverse subjects.
It will be noted that the plan ol the work rs irregular. Asa ¹
matter ol lact, it seems that the plan was changed several times.

Book VI ot the first edition became books VI and VII ol the sec·

ond. Aurelius Victor is discussed in book VII, but the r Epitome s ,1 r

wrongly relers to book VIII. ’ That this‘is not a mere error in
copying seems to be indicated by the lact-that the ί( Epitome ³>
calls Victor «temporum scriptor, ³> and such writers are taken up
iri book VIII, not book VII. In the preface ol book X Sicco states
that he had not planned to include a lile ol Cicero, because it had
been so well done shortly before by Leonardo Bruni, but yielded
finally to the urging ol his son lazzaro and ol· certain friends.
Further indication ol this change ol plan is found in 4029, where Ἴ ’
Sicco added the words orotorcsue in the final dralt ot bis work, thus
showing that in the manuscript horn which he was copying, Cicero
was not originally included. The same may be indicated by the
lact that he discusses the origin ol oratory brielly in the general ⁴
introduction on the arts in book I and then says that the discussion
ol history and poetry would logically be next in order (2228) but
that he will postpone this until he takes up the writers themselves.
At the end ol book XVII he ¹speaks ol ί( the following books, ³> but
only one was written. Even book XVIII was apparently not fin·
ished. The last author, Isidore, is very briefly treated, and the
last sentence is incomplete. It seems likely that Sicco intended to
say something about the Etymologr'es, which he quotes a number ol
times. Called away from his task,'he apparently lorgot that his
last sentence lacked a verb. Book XVII, containing the lile ol
Seneca, was published separately belore the others. In doing
this, Sicco acceded to the request ol friends because he wanted to
get their reaction, as we now put it, butas he has it, to see whether
they inund the first sip ol the wine sweet or sour. The introduc-
tion ol book XVIII seems more suitable in book IX and apparently
was written before the books on Cicero (X-XVI), lor he speaks ol
having written about the poets and historians and states that it
would now be appropriate to spsak about philosophy and eloquence. ’

 

