xxxvt tntnouucttotv

statement was not an outright invention but a rhetorical embel*
lishment ol the facts given by Suetonius, much in the same way
that Cicero (Siceo's master and model) likes'to report (e. g. in
the De San.) as verbal tradition that which he has read in books.-
Somewhat analogous is Sicco's elaboration ol the letters which
appear in the Suetonian biography by inventing inscriptions lor
them. Δ ,
Sicco’s chiet authority, as he tells us (9735), is his lellow-Pa-
duan Livy. At times he is quite scientific in his arguments, as in
deciding that Cicero could not have praised Virgil’s sixth Eetogue
(82.23) and in dismissing the mediaeval stories about Virgil as
being rebus magiis uc obsoletis plene dictaque per fabulum ac femineus
nugas (90.11). Incidentally‚ he makesa number ol similar derog-
atory remarks about women.

How Polenton's lives may be ol value for the student of Latin
literature aad its history may be illustrated by alew examples.
lt was Sicco's custom to weave into his biographies material 'taken
hom the„ authors or works beingdiscussed. Thus in the remarks
on Dares’ history ot Troy he says (l62.23; cl. 2l6.2l):

«Daretis quidem opus, quod esset foliis palmarum scriptum.
Cornellius Nepos ad C. Sallustium in Latinum vertit.»

This is taken from the beginning ol the work itsell:

«Cornelius Nepos Sallustio Crispo suo salutem... in latinitatem
transvertere.» = ,

ln the biographies ol Tibullus (64.15) and Juvenal (l2232)
he obviously emhellishes the lives ol Tibullus and Juvenal lound in ’
the manuscripts ol these authors. ln the lite ol Catullus he says
, ol Lesbia that the poet basiis multis rnr'lr'hus tastu (63.l9). This
is taken horn Catullus' poems 5 and 7: Da nn' basia mille... rnr'lr'a
multa; basia multa basiare. Again he says that Catullus writes to his
¹friend Cornelius, qui nugas eius aliquid esse putare soleret. This
is hom poem l. 3-4: namque lu solebas meus esse aliquid putare nugas.
In the life ol Propertius he says ol Cynthia, quae miserum ipsum
ocellis lecerat suis (64.12). This is lrom Propertius l. 1. l: rni-
serurn me eelsitdocellr's. The reading fecerat¹ serves to fix the class
ol manuscripts to which Sicco's belonged, lor some ol them incor-
rectly have fecit instead ol cepit.

 

