xxti lntnooucrrow

235.l. delectatus quoque interdurn est uenatione verum sine
litteris et ceritis was changed immediately to Denique litteris adeo
usque delectatus est Plinius iste ui etiam in uenatione, etc.

29234. After a lew lines were written the sentence was erased
and an entirely new paragraph was inserted. Then the lines written
first were repeated, though considerably changed.

4513. lt is obvious that the details about Cicero's letters ad
familiares were added as an alterthought.

46916 The phrase philosophiaeque... eruditum was an alter-
thought, lor it is omitted in F.

48l..2 The agreemento oleith the text which Sicco started
to write in O makes certain that the text was revised as it was being
copied by Sicco.

48721 The original ol Ο must have agreed with F m having '
qui scribunt historias pro uero commemorant. ln copying O, Sicco
decided to add omnes before pro, but belore finishing the sentence ἵ
concluded thet multi would be a saler lorrn ol statement.

Such cases, and many others like them. show clearly that it is
a questionable practice to speak ol first and second editions. Sicco's
procedure seems to have been to make 'corrections and additions
in his first copy lrom time to time and then to re-copy, making -
further changes as he copied. Whether there were more such
copies in Sicco's hand than our Ο and the original lrom which R
was copied and perhaps Scardeonius’ manuscript ol 1433 it is im-

possible to say.
¹ Such revisions as just described olten result in unevenness and
uncertainty. Α striking instance is in 46222, where a sentence on
the identification ol Cicero’s Timaeus was added >later in 0. Seb-
badini (l), using only inferior manuscripts in which the sentence
appears in the text. commented on the uncertainty which Sicco-
displays in handling the question. ’ ’

Another thing is clear. We are ableto surprise Sicco in his
process ol revision only in the cases in which he decided to revise
alter he hed already begun to copy the earlier version. That he

..m

iij) Le seoperle dei codici latini egreci ne’secolixtv e xv, 1905, p. 185*
n. .

 

