lNTRODUCTION mv

erously‚ especially at the outset, he sometimes quotes inaccurately‚
apparently lrom memory. He also is lond ol makiqg direct quon
tations out of indirect, as in 476.6. Aparticularly bright light is
“thrown on Sicco's method by the following laets. Sabhadini (1)
citesa passage on the lile ot Horace lrom Sicco's first edition (R)
as follows? ,

«Audivi qui se vidisse etiam affirmaret poetae huius elegos episto·
lasque prosa oratione sub titulo quasi se commendantis ad Maecena·
tem scriptas. ld tamen falsum putat epistolaeque nihil suae dictio-
nis et gravitatis haberent. Hominis huius iudicium, quod haudque*
quam minimae sit et reverentiae et dignitatis, non parvi lacio; mihi
tamen et (Ζ) vetustas codicis et dignitas scriptulae et ipsa inscriptio
persuadent esse non dissimile vero Horatium ea scripsisse, quam

parum multum laborata.» ²
J While calling attention to the similarity ol Sicco's language here
“ to that ol Suetonius in his lile ol Horace, Sabhadini thinks that the
ἶ passage shows that Sicco had personal knowledge lrom someone who
² had seen the manuscript, that therefore these works ol Horace actu-
, ally existed in Sicco's day. Later (3) Sabbadini revised his opin-
s ion and called Polenton's statementa mere mistake. But another
explanation is more likely. ln the linal edition the statement was
= cut down to this:

, ,tScripti quoque ah eo versus elegi epistolaeque prosa oratione
ζ feruntur. llllateria est quod Mecenati se commendat.»

Why the omission ol so striking a lact as that mentioned in the
ζ earlier version? Apparently because it was not a'tact and Sicco
s wanted to avoid giving the impression ol deceiving. The original

inevitably have to be changed to l438. But such other evidence as
f there is lor the completion ol the work and its publication {avorsa date
ξ earlier rather than later than l437 (Scardeonius; letter to Savonarola).

«J ln other words, to assume that H is a direct copy ol 0 involves us in ad- ,
2 ditional difficulties.

² o) uua aaz. a· ar. cras. 111 (1890), pp. 363-364.
(2) The manuscript has ut, followed by mettas, which Sabbadini emends
to videtur, retaining ut.

(3) Le scoperte, etc„ 19115, p. l76, n. 15.

 

