INTRODUCTION XXV

late date makes it unimportant lor the date ol publication discussed

below. It contained two ol Sicco’s letters, some ol Cicero's orations,
'‘aand the pseudo-Ciceronian Synpnima.

T: Turin, Biblioteca Nazionale D. lll. 35. Parchment. -
¹ U: Milan, library ol Prince Trivulzi 815. parchment. Has

subscription:

«Simonis... explicit. Deo gratias. loannes Baptista Spada de ν
Interamna scriptor extitit.»

There is a date l436 preceding this, just alter the text, hut it is
not the date ol copying (see below). The manuscript contains the
stemma ol the Arcimboldi family (archbishops ol Milan, 1484-1497);
it passed to the Belgioioso family lrom the Visconti (l). lt is there-
lore the manuscript which Muratori (2) mentions as being apud
heredes Morchionis Vemellint, Mariae Vicecomia's Mediolani. .

V: Rome, Vat. lat. 3760. Paper and parchment. The date
l436 found in this manuscript is discussed below.
¹ W: Rome, Vat. lat. 354l. On a llyleal a later hand wrote a short
poem about Sicco (3) with the name ol the author, Α. Tridento
(who perhaps owned the manuscript and wrote the poem with his ⁸
own hand), and the date 1466. ,

' ln addition to these manuscripts, whose relation to Ο will be
discussed below and which are occasionally cited below and in the
critical apparatus, there arethe following: -

Rome, Vat. lat. 8535 Paper. Written hastily by several
scribes ,among whom the gutherings ol the original had been distribu-
ted. Oltcn the scribe finished his gathering in the middle ola word
or a sentence long before his paper had run out. lt is obvious
that a manuscript whose gotherings end at these points can be
identified as the original ol this one. That manuscript is V.

=———-.——.

ol Schoenberg's libram, and the description ol the manuscript gives the ’
subscription as above. For Schoenberg’s library see Lousitzr'sches Ma-
[gazin. Go'rlitz, l790. pp. 364-365.

(1) F. Flamini in review ol Cloetta‚ ‘⁴ Antsnge d. Renaissanceutra·
g'odie, ” Giorn. stor. tert. ital. XIX (l892), 416.

(2) Rerum Ital. Script. X, p. l.

(3) Quoted by Segarizzi‚ suppl„ p. l3.

 

