rumouucrrou XXI

other manuscripts. That the manuscript is an autographis made
certain by the following laets:

l. lt is in Sicco's handwriting throughout. Sicco used two
styles ol writing, both ol which remained strikingly consistent
throughout his lile. One is his notarial style (l), the other his liter-
ary style. Yet the two are ol course similar to each other. The
most characteristic leature ol the literary style, in which our manu·
script is written (Plates IV, V) is the final s. While this is not con-
stant in his notarial style, it is by no means absent (2) The notarial
script vis clearly identified lor us by many documents giving his
signature. The identification ol the literary style, while not quite so
certain, is put beyond doubt not only by its resemblance to the no·
tarial style, but also by its use in manuscripts which clearly belonged
to Sicco, such as Vat. Pal. lat. 888 (see above⁴ and Plate lll, maru
gin) and Vat. Pal. lat. 1478 (see below anvalate ll b, c).

2. While it seems clear lrom long study ol Sicco's hand that it
can be recognized at a glance in Ο, there are even more convincing
prools that Ο was written by Sicco himsell. Praetically all the cor-
rections and additions in Oare by the same hand as the text, though
made at various times, as shown by color ot inl< and width ol pen
stroke· The additions are such as only an author would be likely
to make (see below, p. xxviii). But some ol the corrections are still
more interesting. ln many cases it is possible to make out the
original writing and to establish lrom the spac'ing or hom the lact
that in the original writing a word was not completed that the cor-
rections were made at once in the course ol writing the manuscript.
Some ol these immediate corrections are not those ol mere scribal
errors but are changes in wording and> content such as >only an
author makes who revises his manuscript as he copies it. This is
made particularly clear when the original writing agrees with or
comes closer to the text ol the so-called first edition or to the earlier .
text ot the lile ol Seneca discussed above. Ol the 'numerous
examples which may be found in the critical apparatus a lew are
given here.

(l) Plate Illa) and Segadzzi, plate lacing p. xxiv.-
(2) See preceding note.

 

