rwrnouucrlow XV

Evidently -the lile ο1 Seneca* (now book XVll) was to have lollowed
book XVlll but was put belore it so that Seneca-could be dis-

cussed immediately alter Cicero.
'⁴ Sicco was perhaps one ο1 the first to think ol his age as we do,
as a reawakening. Alter speaking ο1 Juvenal, he says (12517) that
poetical ability and eloquence went to sleep. >Thea in discussing
¹ Dante (12831) he remarks that the Muses were slowly waking up
as 11 lrom a very long sleep ol a thousand years, that they were
movingtheir limbs, were rubhing their eyes and stretching. Like·
wise he says (1399) that Petrarch was princeps et auctor in stirring
up interest in poetry and eloquence, which had been neglected
and lain dormant (1). Sicco-wrote this long before Ciriaco d'An· ¹
cona said “l go to awake the dead, ” and belore the eoining ο1 the
word ''Renaissanee” and similar terms (2) Interesting too is
Sicco's remark that he is glad to be living in an age in which genius
,, flourishes‚ in contrast with the earlier sterility (16323). The thought
was suggested to him hythe numerous translations from the Greek
which were being made asa result ο1 the new interest. Worth
quoting too is a sentence in the introduction: “What finer occupa·
tion is there than to browse rn books, which, even il they seem dumb
and dead, yet are teachers ο1 lite and make those who study thern
’ ever better men as well as more learned scholarsf l

IV. Punrrcmrou aun Manuscnrrrs or rua Lines

⁸ While this edition is based entirely on the autograph manuscript -

in the Vatican„0ttob, lat. 1915 (Ο), some consideration ol the
’ other manuscripts is necessary to determine the development ol the
work, the date ο1 publication, the extent ol its diffusion etc.

(l) Cf J. Α. Symonds, Renm'ssoncein Italy, TheAgeolt tlreDespots,
1907, p. 42⁶ The intellect ο1 the Westem races awoke as it were from
slumber and began once more to be active.”

(2) For the history ol the word Renaissance” see Sandys, AHis-
tory ο] Classical Scholurshrp ll, 1906, pp 23; K. BurdachinSitzrmgslrer.
d. latin. preuss. Ahad. (1 Was.,1910‚p.;594 J. PlattardinMe'langesoffertes
ὰ.. Luaron, 1922, p. 128 Burdach shows that Rienz'i had the germ ol the

idea as applied to the religious and political fields. ln connection with

 

