xxm inruonucrroir ,

V and its group were copied in 1436, Α and perhaps the original
ol H belore that, H itsell in 1438, MPQW alter Sicco's death,
then not a single manuscript ol that most fertile period ol copying,
1437, is leit to us. This is incredible. We are forced to believe
that the V group is the very one to which Sicco relers. He says
that in his haste he is dividing the gotherings among several
scribes (hiis quoternatim seroie). We have seen that Vat. lat. 8533
was copied in exactly this way irom V, and that R was copied thus
irom a copy oi V. One manuscript at least was already complete

when Sicco wrote his letter, in the possession ο1 Michael Savona-
rola, as he tells us. Thismay conceivably have been the original
ol Α, the earliest ol the descendants ol Ο in respect to text.

We may conclude therelore with some confidence that 0 was
completed in 1437 and that the other manuscripts were copied in
Ἴ that year or later (cl. also p. xvi).

An argument ior an earlier date ol publication may be brought
lorward from a letter (XlX Segarizzi) oi Sicco's to this same friend
Savonarola. lts date must be later than June 27, 1435, since Sicco
states, in it that his son Modesto ius profitetur civile (1), and alodes..
to was elected to the college ol jurists on thot date (2), alter taking
the examination lorche doctorate ol laws on June 18 (3). Sicco
made the speech ο1 thanlrs to the college ior the honor (Or. 111
Segarizzi) (4). ln this speech Sicco uses the phrase legibus studuit
ol Modesto's activity up to that date, quite in contrast with the'
phrase ius profitetur civile ol the letter. Lilcewise in the prelace ol

(1) Segarizzitakes no account oi this expression, dating the letter
l435(l) on p. 119, 1434 on p. xliv, end ol 1434 or beginning ol 1435
on p. 146. Segarizzi says that Modesto ‘⁶ studiava ancora regne, ”which
is incompatible with Sicco's expression, especially, since the latter con-
trasts his oldest son Modesto. the practicing lawyer‚ with Lazzaro. who
is about to take up medicine (operam ,medicine daturus).

(2) Segarizzi, p. 134.

(3) C. Zonta and l. Brotto‚ Aere Gratiarum Academicorum Gynmosir'
Patavini, 1922, p. 235. We do not lrnow the exact date on which the
degree was conferred.

(4) ln 'the manuscript ol this speech the date is given as June XVII.
an obvious error lor XXVll.

 

