xxiv rurnouuerrou

During part ol this time he was a colleague ol Sicco. lt was natural
therelore that he should want a copy ol the worlr.

M: Madau, Biblioteca Nacional 5782 (Q 93 according to Se· ‚
garizzi). Coat ol arms erased. “

P: Padua, Biblioteca Civica C. Μ. 105 (formerly CRM 247). Paper.

Q: Paula, Univ, 164. Paper. This manuscript, as is seen from
a note on l. 1, once was in the library ol S. Giustina in Padua. lt
is clearly the manuscript which is mentioned in the eighteenth
century catalog oi that library found in manuscript in the Biblioteca
Civica ol Padus (B. P. ll, 389). Under Sicco in Vol. XVII ol
this catalog there is a cross reference to Io. Chrysost, This is lound
in Volr XI, where the contents oi the manuscript are given in full.

The contents are unusual and agree in detail with those ol the Pavia

’ manuscriptll). This was written alter 1453, the date ol one oi

Bessarion's letters contained in it. lt contains only boolr I, followed
by one ol Sicco's letters and then by an excerpt irom book Vl on

Padua (1761547732).

R: Rome, Vatican, Ross. lat. 9116 (XI, 59) From the library
oi Cardinal Firmani. It was written by several scribes among
whom the gatherings ol the original had been divided. The gother-
ings agree with those ol V in only a lew instances.

S: Meissem library ol Hans Districhs von Schoenberg (now
apparently lost). *Known only from the description ol Kappl2),.
who gives its subscription as lollows:

r...scriptus per me Bonifatium Evagniliste de Murrovallium sub
annis domini millesimo CCCCLII tempore Nicolai papae V die
- X Ianuarii in Murro antedicto.»

lt was bought by Schoenberg in Rome. lt was put up lor auc·
tion with other portions ol Schoenberg’s library in 1743(3)1ῐς.Ἰ

(1) Segarizzi (p. lxxxv, n. l b) failed to see that the Pavia manuscript
and that in S. Giustina were identical. For details as to the contents see
L. de Marchi and G. Bertolani‚ inventario dei manuscritti detta R, Bibl.
Unio. di Paaia, l (18941, Fonclo Aldini, No. 164 (some erroro).

(2) Ορς cit. .

(3) Bibliotheca Selactissimo sen catalogus omnis generis librorum in
aeditus Petri Martia, Amsterdam, 1743, ll, p. 584. The catalog is that

 

