xxvi lNTRODUCTION

Leningrad Lat. F. IV. 81. Known to me only lronr the briei
description ol Zabughinss), who calls it a seventeenth century
copy ol an original whose subscription is included. Zabughin lails
to note that the subscription is that ol the Schoenberg manuscript,
ol which the Leningrad manuscript must then be a copy. lt was
almost certainly made by Kapp. lllly reasons lor thinkingso are'
the following: Kapp tells us (2) that he made a copy with a view
to publication, and it is not likely that anyone else would have
undertahen so laborious a task. Furthermore Zabughin says that
the scribe in making corrections “ corrects '' >lor the worse such
forms as Aeneidem to Aeneidos This agrees in part with Kapp's
own statement as to his intended edition (3).

Α manuscript lormerly owned by Sicco's son, Modesto, and later
in the library ol S. Giovanni in Verdara‚ Padua (4), has now disap-

. peared. As Modesto is already calledadoctor ol laws in the note Ἴ

ol ownership, the booltcame into his 'possession aiter 1435(5)and
presumably belonged to the same edition as the other manuscripts.
Antonius reports, on the authority ol alphonso Ciaconius, a
manuscript in the Cathedral library ol Seville which previously
belonged to Fernando Calon, son ol Christopher Columbus(6).
Pignoria inlormed Vossius (7) about two manuscripts in Padua',

(1) Gr'orn. stoc. ten. ital. LXIV (1914), 259-261.

(3) Ρ. 6 “Neque vero adeo me amor suscepti negotii... fefellit, ut
nullos errores... in dicendi genere observaverim... lllos in annotationibus
a me operi, quodiam descriptum penes me servo, brevi in lucem produ-
cendum, subiiciendis, emendare, et omissa supplere elaborabo. ''

(4) Tomasini Bibl. Pothnuscrr'ptoe, p. 17, According to To-
masini it had the subscription Modesti Polemoni Legum Doctorr's tiber
istc est, as well as a metrical epitaph ol Sicco signed by N. F.

(5) See below, p. xxxii.

(6) Nic. Antonius, Bibliotheca Hispana Vetus, l, 1788, p. 3! (l. 7).
The manuscript ol the Collegium capranicense. Rome, also mentioned by
Antonius¹ is probably one ol the Vatican manuscripts.

(7) Vossius, DeHr'storicr's'Latr'nis, ed.2, 1651, Lib. Ill, 9, p. 804. On

Pignoria see below. The statement is not lound in Vossius' lirst edition

ol 1627.

 

