mrnouucnon ‘iun · ⁴

' the same author'sllerum Memorandaramtitri. Sicco'sworkappar-
, ently is the first modern history ol Roman literature. Metus (1)
claims this honor lor Filippo Villani and Domenico' d'Arezzo but
it seems that their works were‘ in no way comparable to Sicco's.
ln view ol the comprehensiveness ol the work it is not surprising
th‘at the legend sprang up that Sicco secured the only existing copy
ol Suetonius' De Viris Illustrr'bus and, alter copying lrom it all that
he wanted lor his book, destroyed it in order to prevent the pla-
giarism lrom being discovered and to put himself beyond compe·
tition. But unfortunately it has been shown that this story, gener· ¹
ally‚ though erroneously‚ attributed to pontano, is not true (2)
l say uniortunately advisedly, not lrom the standpoint ol Sicco’s
reputation but from that ol our selhshness‚ lor, il the story were true„
Sicco’s book would be even more valuable than it is. η
The work is divided into eighteen books. Preceding the first
is an index ol authors discussed, in which over one hundred names
occur, including those ol a lew mediaeval writers and some early
humanists. Living authors are not included Sicco calls the index
an epitome, and this has misled some into assigning this title to the
whole work. ll the latter were the epitome, one wonders what
the whole would be! Book l deals with the origin ol the alphabet
«κ and of the artsand sciences; books ll-lV deal with the Roman poets
., from Livius Andronicus to Petrarch at the end ol book ll is a sec-
’ tion on Roman magistrates, inappropriate to the work as a whole and
'especially at this point (3); books V-Vlll cover the historiens book
ll( begins the subject ol eloquence and deals with Cato and Varro; ¹

’ (l) Vtra Ἀ. Trauersarr', 1759, p. cxl.

(2) Reifferscheid, Suetonius, pp. 363364. There is one reference to
Suetonius which I have been unable to trace (2021). The passage is
lrom Cic. De Or. l. 9, 'except lor the substitution ol Aegyptam lor
φιλοσοφίαν. This may be a conjecture lor eam auam and 'a following
lacuna (Greek words were often omitted). The mention ol Suetonius
is then a slip ol the memory. ’

Ι(3) Perhaps the inspiration came lrom the examples ol Petrarch and
Barzizza. To the former is attributed De dignitatibus et officiis Romani
populi, to the latter De magistratibus Romanae artis in Vat. Reg. lat. 786.
They bear no resemblance, however. to Sicco's account.

 

