ΧΧ tnrnonucrlon

ethicuse bunc edere separatum, ut videas, a ceteris et ante alios, qui
erant videndi cupidi, amici coegerunt.»

, From this it is clear that the bishop ol Feltre‚ to whom this letter
is addressed‚ had received a copy oi the lite ol Seneca before October
6, 1437. What more likely than that the presul> reverendissime ol
our manuscript is this very bishop‚ and that the manuscript is either
the presentation copy or, as 'seems much more likely on account ol
the numerous corrections and the inclusion ol the old Sallust at the
beginning ol the volume, a preliminary copy lrom which the final
one was marlei> Incidentally it becomes evident from the change ol
Polydoro etc. to presul, etcrthat the lite of Seneca was not written as
a separate work and then incorporated in the larga work, but that
it uvas first written as part ot that work.

Just below this correction a reference to the earlier books (libris)
on Cicero is changed to read superioribus commentariis. Similarly
at the end (49932) there is an erasure ol three lines, part ol which
can be made out:

<1 Reliquos autem de quibus dicendum restat librisequentes
habebunt explicit (1) liber (1) stecoris) P(0lent0ni) D<ecimus
Septimus>...»

Evidently Sicco wished to have the book stand by itsell (1).
An examination ol the critical apparatus lor book XVII will show
in part how Sicco changed the final lorm ol that book in O. Only
a lew ol the differences ol F and Ο are given in the apparatus.

The autograph manuscript which Sicco considered his final drait
and which has been used as the sole basis lor the present edition ’

, is a parchment manuscript in the Vatican‚ Ottob. lat. 1915, which is

‘here called O. Segarizzi examined it (2) but did not recognize
that it was an autograph and regarded it as >oi lesser value than

(1) Another manuscript ot the lite of Seneca is in Oxtord (Magdalen
Collega 39). This beautitully mitten manuscript was probably copied
from F alter some of the corrections had been made but not all. See
note on 46513 and 49932. According to Lilius Gregorius Gyraldus,
Ι De Poetarum Historia 8 (Opera, 1696, p. 437) copies ot Sicco's lite ot
Seneca were in circulation under the name ol Augustino. ¹

(2) Ορ. at„ Supplement. ’

 

